[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
What first drew me
to Carl Calleman's
latest work is
that it mentioned we're in a
phase of consciousness that
leads to conspiratorial
thinking.
We see the ramifications of this
in the divided world around us.
But what if there's a much
higher potential to tap into?
This is what Carl and I
will be discussing today.
Welcome, Carl.
It's good to have
you in the studio.
>>CARL JOHAN CALLEMAN:
Thank you so much
>>REGINA: I've only met
you via Zoom before.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: I want to
set this straight
before people start
wasting their energy trying
to guess what your accent is.
I want to talk a little bit
about your background, both
where you come from,
but also professionally
what you were trained to be
and how you spent your time.
>>CARL: Yeah.
OK.
So I come from Sweden.
That's where I was
raised and grew up.
I got a doctorate in physical
biology from one of the--
my mentor was a member of the
Nobel committee in Sweden.
And so I worked in
the hard sciences--
toxicology-- 10 years in
Sweden, and then 10 years at
the University of
Washington in Seattle,
the Department of
Environmental Health.
And then came a sudden--
everything was up in the air
with grants and whatever.
And I had already
become acquainted
with the Mayan calendar,
and spent a lot of time
down in Mexico and so forth.
And then I just
couldn't help myself
from changing the
direction of my work.
And I full time started to
study the Mayan calendar,
and especially what it could
mean for modern people.
You cannot make sense of it from
a modern scientific background.
>>REGINA: Definitely.
And what's interesting is
that you had that curiosity
to begin with.
Now, we're all very
textured beings
in terms of our
interests and what
we're drawn to that can come
from across time and space.
What drew you to the Mayan
calendar at the inception?
>>CARL: I had been
there when I was 29.
I did a backpacking tour
to Mexico and Guatemala.
And sort of just feeling
I should go there.
And then when I came
there, I just felt at home.
Mexico especially felt
like my spiritual home.
And then I would get some
contact with the Maya
down in the Yucatan
and so forth.
And there was
something about them,
I think, seeing something
in me that I had not
thought of before.
I was still working
in laboratories
as a graduate student.
>>REGINA: And what were
they reflecting back to you?
>>CARL: Well, not really--
I mean, somebody would just
come up with some little amulet
or something like that and
say, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]..
>>REGINA: It's for you.
>>CARL: For you.
And why for me?
Why for me?
>>REGINA: Because
in Scandinavia,
the society and culture is
a little more withdrawn.
A little more austere in
terms of emotional expression,
casually.
Right?
>>CARL: Yeah, yeah.
Sure.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So this would be a
question for you.
>>CARL: Yeah, that's right.
And so after that I just knew
this is the purpose of my life.
But then it took
another 13 years
until I devoted
myself full time to it
and left the previous career.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
I'm glad you did.
You'd probably be
so bored by now
and you'd be kicking
yourself that you hadn't
left that career for this.
>>CARL: Probably.
>>REGINA: So we spoke
in a conversation
on ReginaMeredith.com,
on my own site,
and we had the first
part of a conversation
about the ninth wave
of consciousness.
And what I want to
do is flesh this out
in this big fat conversation
today and go further than that.
But I want to dip back into
the whole notion of the Plumed
Serpent and the waves
of consciousness,
and how this shows up in our
world throughout history.
So give a nice explanation
as background to everyone.
>>CARL: I should
say, first of all,
that I base myself on
the ancient Maya, what
I have developed as
kind of a cosmology.
And one of the most
prominent things
there-- and I remember
when I came to Chichen Itza
the first time, I couldn't
really make sense of it
with my, at that time,
quite rational mind.
Why do they build this
whole city, and especially
their main pyramid, in honor
of the serpent or a snake?
But then it turns out
all the major sites,
really, in Mexico are dedicated
to the Plumed Serpent.
So there must have been
something profound about it.
And the way I look upon it
and have come to explain
is it really is a
metaphor, a symbol,
that people in ancient
times would use in order
to describe a sine wave.
And when you start
thinking about it,
if you're living in
nature, basically you
don't have any computer
programs or anything like that.
And then you would
like to create
a metaphor for a sine
wave, well the best thing
you could come up
with is a serpent.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that makes sense,
because they were
always looking--
always.
I mean, the most
sophisticated cultures
still look to the natural
world for symbols.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>REGINA: So what other
animal would indicate this?
Or even a tree or plant
would indicate that?
>>CARL: Yeah.
Right.
And it's also all with the
serpent, this Plumed Serpent,
which is like the
main creator god.
It used to be, in ancient
times, usually also linked
to the Tree of Life.
So you know, we have
the two main symbols
from the book of Genesis there.
But all cultures, many cultures.
>>REGINA: Yes, because
you have this symbolism
of shedding skin.
So you annually have
a chance to renew.
>>CARL: You renew.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARL: Molting the skin.
>>REGINA: Molting the skin.
Yes.
So it has a lot
of deep symbolism,
because a lot of
people have taken
it to mean black magic and
dark things in general.
And that's not
really what it was.
That's not how it
was used in Egypt.
It's not how it's been used
in Central and South America.
So I'm glad you're setting
the record straight on this.
>>CARL: Yeah.
And so the Plumed Serpent,
then, as I see it, is a wave--
or a number of waves, actually.
Specifically nine
major waves that
emanate from the
center of the universe.
And the ancient Mayan texts are
quite specific on that point.
They describe-- they say
there is something they
call the place of creation.
And they also talk about that
as the raised up sky place.
>>REGINA: I was going to
say, a lot of cultures
refer to it as the central sun.
>>CARL: They would.
BUT what it's a little bit
specific about the Maya
is that it sounds
like they describe it
as, in this center of the
universe there are slides,
raised up skies, that are
shifted with a specific rhythm,
so to speak.
And then there is a projection
throughout the universe
of a new state of consciousness.
And it all emanates from there.
But what carries the
information of this slide,
of this state or
geometry, that's
the wave, the Plumed Serpent.
So that's the one that
brings this to us.
>>REGINA: And they specifically
say there are these nine waves.
So do these nine waves
repeat themselves?
Do you go through
a cycle of nine
and you're at a
certain level, and then
do you start again on the nine?
Or how does that work?
>>CARL: I think
it is a build up.
>>REGINA: A build up.
OK.
>>CARL: Like the pyramids, they
would build these nine stories,
terraces so to speak.
And each one of these
represents a specific slide,
a specific geometric
information through which
the human beings will
perceive and create reality.
But it's a climb up nine levels.
And the fundamental thing that
happened, I would say in 2011,
is that the climb was completed.
For the first time in the
history of the universe,
all waves are in principle
accessible to us.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's exciting.
It's also making
some people crazy.
It's making other
people step up.
It's having an interesting
effect on humanity at large.
So now, this also sets
aside the misunderstanding,
in a sense, that
the calendar simply
ended on December 21, 2012.
That the Mayan calendar ended.
And you're saying, no.
>>CARL: Yeah, no.
The easiest way for people to
actually convince themselves
that it hasn't ended is to
follow the ninth wave, which
has such a short 36 day
period that you can actually--
people that actually
follow that would
experience the ups and downs.
Meaning that this still goes
on, all the way still goes on.
And this is not--
it's not something of
my making, because there
are inscriptions from Palenque,
in Chiapas, that talk about,
for instance, the year 4100.
And so what that
tells us is that yeah,
they clearly saw that.
It wasn't 13 backtun
and then it's over.
>>REGINA: It continues on.
>>CARL: It continues.
There are dates pointing to
21 backtuns way in the future.
So they saw that as
an ongoing thing.
>>REGINA: Where did get the
notion it just ended that day?
How did that become popularized?
Was that Jose Arguelles?
>>CARL: I think, yeah.
Well, actually ultimately it
goes back to, I would say,
a mistake by a Mayanist.
A very reputed,
very well respected
Mayanist, Michael Cole, who
was a curator at the Yale
Museum of Mesoamerican things.
And he wrote a
book, and I read it
when I was there the
first time in 1979.
And then he suggests that
the calendar would end--
actually he wrote 2011, which
I think is the right time.
But he said--
>>REGINA: Did he consult
any Mayan elders on this?
>>CARL: No, I don't think so.
>>REGINA: OK.
There you go.
But continue.
>>CARL: Yeah.
And then he said,
maybe with a bang,
I think it says in parentheses.
And so it's a little bit
funny, because these guys,
the professional
Mayanists, they always
try to make it, oh,
we're not New Agey.
No, no, no, no.
>>REGINA: Pure science.
>>CARL: Pure science.
But this story actually
comes from what
might be in the late 20th
century, the most respected
archaeologist in this area.
But he made it up.
>>REGINA: OK.
There you go.
So it turns out, it continues.
Life continues.
The universe continues.
We continue.
>>CARL: At least it's meant to.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
So now let's get into
the waves themselves.
So because the
ninth wave is really
what we're going to focus
on, but what leads up to it
is interesting.
Let's talk about the
first four waves,
and even go back historically
and maybe just peg
a period, an empire
or an event or two,
to each of the waves leading
up to the sixth wave.
>>CARL: OK.
OK.
>>REGINA: So people
know where we've been
and can kind of see
it in their minds.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Well, the waves, then, it seems
like they are building up.
First the four lowest levels,
the four bottom levels,
is basically about creating
the biology of the human being.
So it's a series--
the first wave just
creates the first cells.
The second level creates
plants and animals.
The third level creates upright
walking people, or monkeys,
or primates or so fourth.
And then the fourth wave,
it has this expansion
of the human brain size.
And then it leads up to what
we, biologically speaking,
are now--
Homo sapiens.
>>REGINA: Modern humans.
>>CARL: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So in their belief, is there
a central creative force,
or mind, or god
of some kind that
sets these waves in motion?
What are these
waves emanate from,
and what is the creative
force in creating
the templates that create the
cells that create, et cetera?
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Just a small question.
>>CARL: Yeah, just
a small question.
And it really makes you wonder.
But I can tell you what the
ancient Maya seemed to believe.
So they have this
place in the center
of the universe, which is also
the center of the Tree of Life.
And then they say, in
that place, in that center
they talk about somebody
who is the first father.
And he erects the world
tree, according to one.
>>REGINA: So creates
and conceives of.
>>CARL: That's how I read it.
>>REGINA: Which is almost
ever of the world's faiths
and religions and
traditions have--
there's a creative mind that
precipitates everything.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Yeah.
But it's also-- something that's
also noteworthy is that it
seems like they looked
upon it as if the gods--
and the gods then is the Plumed
Serpent, the Tree of Life,
and the Heart of the
Heavens, so to speak.
That they gathered
before creation.
So they gathered--
>>REGINA: So they help really
engineer the materialization
of these things.
>>CARL: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>CARL: And then
creation begins.
>>REGINA: OK.
So it's a team of
people that creates.
>>CARL: It's a team.
It's a team.
>>REGINA: Of beings, of gods.
>>CARL: Clear teamwork, yes.
>>REGINA: Teamwork.
OK.
So now we're up
through the four--
so we have kind of
upright Homo sapiens.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: First of
all, do they believe
that this species,
this type of process,
happens elsewhere in the cosmos?
That there are many
other places populated
that go through this process
and populated with people?
>>CARL: That's not something--
>>REGINA: They don't
really focus on?
>>CARL: They don't focus on
it, but it would be logical.
If there is the center
of the universe that
creates these projections,
they will go out everywhere.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARL: And then the
logical conclusion
would be that wherever there is
a living planet or conditions
are there, then
you would have life
and the same kind of evolution
according to the same waves.
>>REGINA: Well, it makes sense.
I mean, especially
coming from that kind
of large cosmological
overview, but even coming
from the more macro view.
Forbes magazine-- Forbes
magazine came out yesterday
with an article
stating that they
have done the
calculations, and it
appears there are at least
36 other intelligent species
throughout the universe.
And I thought, great.
It could be 36
million, 36,000, 3,600.
But even acknowledging
there are 36 in Forbes,
it's time we don't giggle
about this stuff anymore.
>>CARL: No, no.
I mean, it's just logical.
>>REGINA: It's just logical.
>>CARL: It's just logical.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So that's kind of an aside.
>>CARL: I should say, logical
according to this kind of idea
that the universe is created.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARL: If you're a
biologist in a university,
you think life came
out by an accident.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well.
So we have this-- and
this kind of sine wave
is kind of like the ladder
to heaven, so to speak,
going up through the waves.
Now, let's focus for a
moment on the fifth wave.
And what was what
humans were up to?
We're going to keep
this discussion just
to the human species.
>>CARL: Yes.
So the fifth wave is
sort of the midpoint
of the climb to the top.
And that's when human
beings become something more
than animals, you might say,
as far as we can gather.
Because we do know that there
are evidence from South Africa
about 100,000 years
ago when this started,
this wave started, where
they show that people
started to make art.
And we do know
that people started
to bury their
ancestors, and also
even decorate the burial sites.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So cultural practices
and traditions and such
were given birth to.
More sophisticated way of
relating to one another
and our place in the world.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
>>CARL: And started
to create symbols.
You can think that
maybe they, you know,
there's some kind of
spirituality in it
the whole idea of saying
that maybe this person
we need to bury and it
will go on somewhere else.
So we need to honor or whatever.
It takes a very long
time, about 100,000 years,
this particular wave.
>>REGINA: Because they
start decreasing in length,
these waves, as
you go further in.
So that's important that
you brought that up.
So what happens--
how much time has
passed before you
get to the sixth wave
and what it represents?
Because we're still living
off of the more corrupted
influences of that sixth wave.
So let's talk about
the sixth wave.
>>CARL: Yeah.
OK.
The sixth wave, then, is the one
that started 5,100 years ago.
And it begins what is
usually called the Long
Count to the Maya.
And that's really what
formed the whole basis
of the discussion of the Mayan
calendar a couple of years ago.
And it creates
basically civilization.
It also creates dominance.
It also creates unequal
relationships of all kinds.
>>REGINA: Hierarchical
stratified society.
>>CARL: Stratified society.
And presumably, from what we
can gather, before that people
lived in more communal settings
and without anybody dominating,
as far as we can tell.
And so forth.
No warfare before
that point in time.
>>REGINA: Also more patriarchal.
>>CARL: More patriarchal.
>>REGINA: The
fifth became more--
>>CARL: Sixth.
The sixth wave being
more patriarchal.
>>REGINA: Sixth.
Excuse me, sixth wave.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Yeah.
And the way I
would explain it is
that the slide, the
geometric quantum state that
starts to be emitted then from
the center of the universe, it
holds that genuine duality,
black white duality.
And then when we download
that, because the waves,
our brains download
these waves, then we
start to look at everybody
else, or the world around us,
through this filter of
dominance basically.
And we think some
are the pharaohs,
and they are great up
there, so to speak.
And the rest are slaves
and they are down there.
But from this
perspective, it's actually
a state of consciousness
that creates
our perception of reality.
Like this comes from the
center of the universe,
it must be God
given, so to speak.
In a sense it is, because
I presume civilization
was meant to happen.
But on the other hand,
there is this other aspect
of this duality that creates
separateness and dominance.
>>REGINA: So it was
how we as a species
took it up and responded
to that energy.
And so we can look at it from
the positive point of view
that it was time for perhaps
the population of the Earth
had grown to an extent that
larger civilization patterns
needed to be established
on some level.
Right?
I don't understand
the need for dominance
in that kind of
hierarchy, but I suppose
when you get enough people
in a room it's inevitable.
The most dominant end
up taking that place.
And then when you have
that wave of consciousness
that's creating
that stratification
in black and white,
it's inevitable some
are going to end up on top and
some will be on the bottom.
And if you look at
it more from a--
I look at it from an incarnation
point of view, repeated
incarnations and learning.
I guess that would give
you a window of time
to play with what it's
like to be the exploited
and to be the exploiter,
and kind of have all
these experiences until you come
to what we're going to come to
in the ninth wave in a bit.
But this is a playground.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It's a
challenging playground.
We've really messed
up in a lot of ways.
Maybe could be worse.
Could be worse, it
used to be worse.
I think we're better than
we were even 100 years ago.
>>CARL: I would say so, too.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
We are evolving within this,
and some beautiful things
are starting to
happen as a result.
But let's not skip
over what happens then
when the seventh wave hit,
and then the eighth wave
and what they brought in.
But also this notion
of the sine wave
has an incline and a decline.
And this is natural.
Right?
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we have an
incline in consciousness,
everything moves.
Renaissance period
things, start flowering.
Creativity is abundant.
And then you go down the other
slippery slope for a while.
So where are we right now?
What was the height
of the wave we're
in, and where are we right now?
>>CARL: Well, in terms
of the sixth wave,
we've just gone into a dark age.
We've gone down and
it's beginning--
there was a peak then
from 1617 to 2011.
And that's really
the peak that created
what we know-- a global
civilization, basically driven
by the West.
But now that has turned.
And this is part of many
different civilizations
in the past--
>>REGINA: The Vedic
traditions, rise and fall.
The Yuga cycles.
Absolutely.
>>CARL: Yeah.
But the reason I think the
Maya are so interesting
and I was guided
to work with them
is really that they give
timings for these things.
And that means that for me as
a scientist, modern scientist
so to speak, I can
sit there and check,
does this date
match with anything
that we know from history?
And it's just absolutely
amazing how much actually fits.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
At the top of this
particular wave
you see the establishment
of the British Empire,
America comes into the picture
as dominant powers in the room.
And again, this is dominance.
>>CARL: Yeah, it is.
>>REGINA: So here we go.
So now we're on the other side.
We're going into
a declining level
or state of consciousness.
And so let's talk about
what that brings with us.
Because I do want to get
into this notion of what
happens when conspiracy
starts coming into a society.
Into a person, into a
group, into a society.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Well, that's a big question.
And there are many
aspects of it.
But as far as I can understand
it from the cosmic center,
in this peak period
that we had--
it was a division so that
the West was favored,
the East was disfavored.
The left brain half was favored
and the right brain half
was disfavored in this period.
And then when it goes into dark,
both are sort of disfavored.
And you can, you
know, I think there
are several things you can see.
First of all, these
past 10 years,
you've never heard
the word unprecedented
being used so much.
>>REGINA: So many times.
It's true.
>>CARL: It's unprecedented.
Why?
Because the quantum
state is different now.
So whatever we grew up with
was a completely different set
of values and so forth.
But if you just look at
the situation in America,
it also equalizes.
If both sides are dark, then
there is in a sense balance.
And so you in these 10 years
since this quantum shift
happened, you've had the big
MeToo movement, and so forth.
And I would say
most of these things
were completely
unthinkable before to 2011.
>>REGINA: I think so.
I mean, this to me
is really watching
the higher end of
the consciousness
on that scale rising.
And when we get to the ninth
wave, it'll make sense.
But passing through this right
now, the amount of division
emits this.
We've acknowledged a few
really good things happening.
But emits that on
the home front,
in schools, in office places,
and everywhere around the world
right now, and certainly
in the United States.
This is why I wanted to
talk about conspiracy.
In this wave of consciousness,
as I was reading in your work,
we go into states of we
know something's not right.
We're not accessing the truth.
We start becoming suspicious.
>>CARL: And we know that it
comes from somewhere else.
It's not here.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CARL: And we know it's
that, but nobody tells you.
>>REGINA: No one tells you.
It just feels like
something's not right.
And then you start thinking,
OK, who's out to get me?
Who's lying to me?
I'm going to get to
the bottom of this.
And go over the last 10
years, conspiracy theory,
which a lot of times
it isn't theory,
it's just facts that are
difficult to deal with.
But conspiracy theory
has just mushroomed
to an absolutely absurd extent.
Now we have disinformation
artists planted all over.
No one can tell the difference
between right information
and disinformation.
It's literal insanity out
there in that world now.
And what you said that
was so interesting in one
of the articles I read was
that when that mindset becomes
collective, really
becomes entrenched,
the suspicion and
division is so deep
that empires,
societies, countries
fall at the hands of
conspiracy theory.
>>CARL: Right.
>>REGINA: Talk about
that for a bit.
We need to understand this.
>>CARL: Yeah.
The quantum state has darkened.
It's a darkened
filter that comes out.
And it didn't used
to be darkened up
until 2011, basically.
Now what's happened when
that darkened filter becomes
what we resonate with, whether
we are aware of it or not.
It's that suddenly all the
things that people used
to think were good values--
that's a good person,
he's respected,
he did that, she did
that, cetera, et cetera.
That's been shifted.
So now everything--
>>REGINA: Is going
through a dark lens.
>>CARL: Everything
gets torn down.
Whoever was an
ideal in those days,
well they will associate him
or her with some pedophile ring
or whatever it is like that.
Because that is
somehow to make sense
of how they see things
through this lens,
they have tear everything down.
>>REGINA: You have to
make the external world
match what you're going
through internally.
>>CARL: Yes, exactly.
And then it's, you know, it's
a dark filter that's coming.
And so I would say it's a
tremendous spiritual challenge
for people today.
>>REGINA: Oh, very much so.
And it's a very big emotional
and mental challenge,
because you're watching
a site that's saying,
oh no, this is
actually really good.
It could look kind of ugly,
but it's really, really good.
And you're thinking, no.
It looks really ugly.
I'm not seeing anything
good in this at all.
And I'm not seeing anything
they ever say ever being true.
But it has this
addictive quality
to feed the expectation
of the person that's
addicted to that kind
of information now.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And to me I
watch it and I think,
this is a really slippery slope.
But maybe that's just
endemic historically
to the time we're in.
And so we'll get to the
fixes on this a little bit
later, because it's important
to talk about the solutions.
Because there is a place
to go for discernment.
For truth amidst
all of this, right?
OK.
And part of this is
really interesting.
You wrote, you
explained, that this
is kind of Yahweh way
versus the serpent
is what really came up in
this wave of consciousness,
sixth kind of patriarchal wave.
Yahweh versus the serpent.
What does that mean?
And I think I wrote here,
in the book of Genesis,
it says in here is
the reversal of truth.
So let's talk about that.
I think it's really important.
So many are part of the
Judeo Christian culture.
>>CARL: It's very
important, I think.
You know, we talked
earlier about
how pretty much all the
traditions of the world
have this idea of a Tree
of Life and some kind
of a serpent to it.
And everybody has
probably heard,
at least if you live
in the Western world,
you've heard the book of
Genesis version about this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Highly conflicting information,
chapter to chapter.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Yeah.
That's true, too.
But basically, then, it ends up
with the god, or purported god
maybe, of the Jews.
He curses the human
beings, and especially Eve,
but he also curses the serpent.
Because the serpent has
brought this knowledge
of good and evil,
and that wasn't good
according to Yahweh.
And the first thing
to notice, I think,
is that this is kind of unique
in the ancient traditions,
that the serpent is being
repressed like this.
Usually they would
honor the serpent
as being a bringer of some
information, and so forth.
>>REGINA: But then you have
to get into who is Yahweh?
Who are the gods of the day?
Get into-- I love Chris Hardy's
work, for example, and how
she explains it,
where you're getting
into some of the
Anunnaki influence
and men setting themselves
up as the god in residence.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So that's different
than natural waves.
>>CARL: Yeah, it is.
It is.
So I think this was sort of--
that god was like a projection
of the human ego that
started to emerge at that time.
Yahweh is a jealous god.
He doesn't accept anybody else.
It's sort of typical of the ego.
And so what happens
in human society
at that time, which is sort
of being let legitimized
by this story, is that the ego
becomes the driver very much,
and people start to ignore the
wave movement and so forth.
And I think the idea is false.
I don't think that's
how things are.
Because if you actually
look at history, even
from that point of
time, 2,500 years,
it will continue
to go like a wave.
Like the serpent is
still there, but they
try to make it a human
thing, so to speak.
And the shift then
came from the earlier,
maybe more tuning
into the waves,
and then went to being
the ego sort of thing.
>>REGINA: The big ego.
So now let's move
on, because I'm
interested in the ninth wave.
So we've got to get
through the seventh wave
and the eighth wave.
>>CARL: Yeah.
OK.
So the seventh wave was
activated in AD 1755.
And it's also a time of great
changes in human society.
For the first time
you have republics
being formed in the
United States and France,
the revolutions in those
countries, and so forth.
And so over time,
republics have come
to replace all the monarchies
that were totally the norm
before 1755.
And then it's the
Industrial Revolution.
Before that, people really
couldn't use any fossil sources
of energy.
But then 1769 with the
invention of the steam engine--
>>REGINA: Coal and then
on to fossil fuels.
>>CARL: Onto trains and
cars and electricity,
and all that kind of a thing.
But it's also actually people--
it's creating a little
bit of balance in this.
We talked about the duality that
had dominated the sixth wave.
It became that.
And so it's only after
this point in time,
actually, that people start
to protest against slavery.
Before that, nobody really did.
But then you get this sense
that in many ways you start--
>>REGINA: So the Industrial
Revolution, in a sense,
created an equalizing effect.
In a sense.
Even though a lot of people
were enslaved to that.
>>CARL: Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
Everything is sort of complex.
But I think it's still
true that people--
you know, before
this point in time,
people were very, very cruel.
And it's tremendous-- you know,
torture was sort of normal.
It was what do you do.
Because the duality
told you this
comes from some high place
up there, and so they just--
>>REGINA: Horrid
what people have
done in the name of their
gods throughout history.
>>CARL: That, too.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So the
seventh wave, then when
did that start turning down
and beginning of the eighth?
>>CARL: It goes up and down.
20 years basically
up-- it's 20 times
higher frequencies
going like that.
And then comes the eighth
wave, and that's in 1999.
And that basically,
well it brings a couple
of different phenomena.
Maybe the most remarkable
is the Digital Revolution.
So now we are living in a
digital world, pretty much.
And in the ancient times,
people would talk, say
that there were different worlds
sort of replacing each other.
And if you want an example
of how we're in a new world,
I think the digital world
really makes a good case.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
It's almost an alternate
reality and portal.
>>CARL: Yes.
>>REGINA: So here we have
the Digital Revolution.
I think everyone can
understand the feelings of all
these waves we've talked about.
And what's interesting
is just because one wave
gives way to another
does not mean
that the imprint of
the previous waves
isn't influencing us, our
bodies, our development,
our societies.
They can all be present.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now we go to the ninth wave.
>>CARL: Yeah.
So the ninth wave was
activated in 2011.
That is the highest, as
far as we can understand
it, the highest of the waves.
And that's-- it's quite
distinct, different,
I would say.
In a sense, it has a
similar quantum state
as the fifth wave that brought
the first spirituality,
the first art, and so forth.
But most importantly,
it's a quantum state--
that wave carries
a quantum state
that doesn't create separation.
There is no duality
in it, so to speak.
And what that means
is that we could,
through developing
resonance with this,
we could go back to
relating differently.
Not that good/bad, black/white
that people normally
thought in the sixth wave.
It's one that doesn't
create separation, really.
And I would say a "we-ness"
state of consciousness.
And it won't have those
kind of clear manifestations
like the Industrial Revolution
and the Digital Revolution,
because as I
understand it, whoever
planned this cosmic plan,
it's for us an opportunity
to go back to that unity
that we came from in a sense.
And it's not really
about technology.
>>REGINA: And we see
some evidence of this.
I mean, as is crazy--
it's kind of crazy making out
there, but I agree with you--
we've actually never
been a kinder species.
Compared to where we came
from, where literally
people would go and watch
horrible executions for fun
on the weekend.
They'd schedule an
execution essentially
for town entertainment.
I mean, we were so barbaric
such a short time ago.
We've come a long way.
And as you say, since
2011 with this ninth wave
it's interesting.
Because we've certainly
seen a polarization
in the wealth of people
and the status of people,
as the wealthier literally
garnered virtually everything
for themselves and then the
rest of society gets the scraps
and is left to survive.
That kind of concentration of
wealth has never been greater,
I don't know think.
Well, maybe in the time of
fiefdoms and kingdoms and such.
But not in modern history
as it is right now.
So we have this incredible
tearing away on one hand.
But just as unions
came about however--
I don't know when the first
union was established,
but let's say 75 years
ago, 100 years ago.
I don't know the history
of union organization.
And it gave some
protection to the workers
against the abuses
of the bosses who
wanted to crank product out.
That was done in a formal
way to give an average worker
a bit of a dignified life
instead of being worked
to death by the age of 29.
That was the beginning
of it on one level.
Then you had the
emancipation of women.
You had the rights of
all people to vote.
I mean, so it's been building.
But now what's so
beautiful, it seems
to be driven from something
deeper in ourselves really
even from the heart.
This is really catching
that divine wave.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: In the truest
sense of what it's here for.
>>CARL: Sure.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So with
people kind of going--
if you're not catching that
wave yet, to me I look at--
and I said this in
another show recently.
We can't look to--
I love truth.
I'm always looking for it.
But truth is so
highly subjective
right now, and through
everyone's own lens.
It's really-- you almost can't
use that word very easily.
But you can go into the heart.
You can go into what you
know to be right and true.
Right?
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so this
compartmentalization
that has been going on, this
is what you write about,
is how to begin deep
compartmentalizing so that we
can access the deeper
truths in ourself
to know what's truly a good
offering into the world.
And where to put
our time and energy.
So talk about that--
decompartmentalization.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Well, the first thing, though,
is that these nine waves,
they are now
running in parallel.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you can dip up, down,
in, and out of any of them.
>>CARL: Yes.
And different people are
resonating with different waves
to different degrees.
Some people may even be still
very much in the sixth wave,
and others maybe--
>>REGINA: Well,
if it served them,
clinging to the remnants
of what served them.
>>CARL: That seems to be it.
And so what this means is
that it's not just these--
what's happening now in
the world and will happen
may not necessarily come
sort of across the board.
There might be some
people that are
seeing the world through
another filter, basically.
But it also points, then,
to us to some extent,
and I think the intentions that
we have are critical for this,
to what do we want to
develop resonance with?
And then I also want
to point out here
that these are actually
quantum states that are
emitted from the cosmic center.
And we don't sort
of just smoothly
go from one to another.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
There are always
stutters and problems.
>>CARL: Yeah.
And especially that
last quantum shift,
I would say, up
to the ninth wave.
>>REGINA: Going from me to we.
>>CARL: Yeah.
That's-- it doesn't
happen automatically.
Because we will-- we, I don't
know if it's true for me,
but most people will still
ask the question, what's in it
for me, so to speak.
>>REGINA: Not a good
question in that wave.
>>CARL: It's not a good
question in that wave,
because you don't--
if that's your
primary question, you
may not take that quantum
leap to the highest level.
So I would say it creates--
it requires an intention
and also then an intention
to do a quantum leap.
And what a quantum
leap means here
is that you may not
have the immediate--
on the state of
consciousness where you are,
you may not see this
other quantum state.
It's almost like I'll
have to take the risk
in this particular case.
And then start to
cultivate your resonance
with that particular wave.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Because it has to be a choice.
There has to be a recognition
that this is beneficial,
to be inclusive
rather than exclusive.
To be respectful to someone
else who is different rather
than disrespectful.
A person has to have some
kind of feeling for going
in a new direction, right?
There has to be
some impetus for it.
Maybe watching someone
being humiliated
and it hurt your soul so badly
you just can't take it anymore
and you have to stand up for it.
Right?
I mean, that's what's
happening right now.
>>CARL: Yeah, it is.
>>REGINA: So in
your book, you write
about decompartmentalization.
Even the use of
psychedelics in instances
to blow those boundaries apart.
>>CARL: Yes.
The way I look upon
it, and I think
I made a good case
that that's so,
is that we download
these quantum states
from the cosmic center.
And what that means is that we
download a particular geometry
and duality through which
we perceive reality.
And especially this sixth
wave that created civilization
5,100 years ago, it was a very
compartmentalizing geometry,
so to speak.
And in certain ways,
that's kind of--
you know, it's based
on perpendicular
structuring of our minds.
So for instance,
writing came out
of that particular--
the ability to write.
Because what is writing?
Well, it's signs, but it's
signs placed in a horizontal
or a vertical context.
And if you don't have that
context, you have no writing.
So before people started
to download this geometry,
they didn't write.
That wasn't part of it.
Now, that also, that geometry
creates a compartmentalization
of our brains.
And if you like,
most of these things
you can always see a good side
or a bad side, a little bad.
It's not as simple to
say that that's a bad way
or that's a good way
or something like that.
But there's many aspects
of them to be aware of.
And it's created
compartmentalization.
And that compartmentalization
was, for instance, also
linked to this duality, this
hierarchical differences that
ruled the world for
such a long time.
And now psychedelics come
in here, as well as--
I think one of the points
that I'm making really
in this book and the
explanation that I provide
for how psychedelics work
is that it's not really
like psychedelics is drugs and
meditation is good so to speak.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARL: No.
I look upon these
different phenomena--
breath work--
>>REGINA: Meditation.
>>CARL: Meditation.
>>REGINA: You can
even bring in EMDR.
I mean, there are a
lot of different ways
to break these
compartmentalization patterns.
>>CARL: Exactly.
And I look upon it as
a variation of a theme.
And they function a
little bit differently,
but that's the central
of, I would say,
the healing aspect of it.
It helps us move towards
unity, I would say.
Because if you take the
case of psychedelics,
at least temporarily
for a couple of hours
it breaks down that
compartmentalization
and you get information
through the waves that
are not sort of separated
or focused in the way
that they used to be.
>>REGINA: Because your
brain's experiencing literally
different brain wave states
than in your normal waking life.
So you're able to access these
other fields of consciousness
and tap into that
brainwave pattern.
>>CARL: Right.
You know, you go out of
your default state, which
is usually very structured.
>>REGINA: Your identity.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Very much so, your identity
and ego and all that.
That are based on these kinds
of compartmentalizations.
And then people, whether
they are meditating or doing
any other deep
compartmentalizing things,
they get a new opening.
They see a new opening
for something else.
A more direct contact
with the divine.
>>REGINA: And that seems to be
how most people that experience
psychotropic drugs explain it.
That it's as though they
were in touch with something
higher on some level.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Something giving
guidance, even, right?
And then you have
the drug ecstasy,
which just kind of blows
everyone open into a state
of-- it seems to create this
common "we-ness" as you say.
The sense of unity and love.
I mean, and we are
not suggesting,
I'm not suggesting, any
of this as a prescription.
This is not advice of any kind.
We're just talking
about the states
that have been observed
with various drugs,
psychotropic drugs.
And it seems that ecstasy
is one that has taken people
kind of universally
into this loving unity
type of consciousness, right?
So something going
on with whatever part
of the brain that's stimulating.
>>CARL: Yeah,.
>>REGINA: But what about
the notion if we simply
say, I choose, because I can
feel that the rightness of it.
I choose unity.
I want to be part of something.
A part of something that's
beautiful and that serves all.
That's collaborative.
Which is getting more into
the feminine frequencies
of coordination,
collaboration, and so forth.
Unity consciousness
is generally,
as we classically call it,
more feminine in nature.
It serves all.
So what if you choose
that and you say, OK.
This is my practice now.
I choose unity.
I choose to see you as my equal.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about how
we can do this without drugs.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Right.
Yeah, because I
don't think you get
to the "we" state with
drugs or medication either.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
And not even meditation.
It's still you.
>>CARL: Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, you know, I collaborate
with Patricia Albere.
And I think she has come far
in developing actual practices
of getting to this
"we-ness" state.
>>REGINA: Spell her name
for us so other people
can look her up.
>>CARL: OK.
A-L-B-E-R-E.
>>REGINA: OK.
And what is she doing that
has garnered your respect?
>>CARL: , Well I've been to
some of her courses or practices
and so forth.
And it's very hard to describe,
actually, what happens.
But you connect
with other people.
So one of the things that
she is saying quite clearly
is that this is not
something you get
to as a separate individual.
You don't-- and that
means that while, say,
psychotropics or meditations
may prepare you for that state,
it doesn't take you
to that quantum leap.
But it is-- you are
together, you're creating
or you're accessing directly
from the source, which
would be what the Maya called
the Center of the Universe,
so to speak.
You're accessing this wave.
And a state of "we-ness",
which is not you plus me.
It's not as simple as that.
It's something other
than you plus me.
It's not just our--
>>REGINA: It's not us combined.
There's a unity
that overrides that.
>>CARL: It's a shared unity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARL: It's not just we
having a good relationship.
It's something
else that comes in.
And then that becomes the
driving force, you might say.
The ninth wave bringing
the world into unity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And maybe it starts as simply as
seeing ourselves in each other,
and it's all part of the same.
And that's a choice.
That's something we have
to switch gears and say,
I am choosing to view
my fellow human this way
so we can rise together
in this consciousness.
>>CARL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And there's
one thing I want--
because we're
about out of time--
that I thought was really
interesting as a prospect.
About when you're entering a
time of unity consciousness,
the old underpinnings
of the patriarchy
need to be let go of.
And so you were talking about--
and I wrote this
down as a question--
have we entered a
time, then, we don't
need dictators and strongmen
and strong leaders?
We actually maybe
need malleable,
weak, quote, "leaders"
so that we can all rise
together and mold each other.
Talk about that
for just a minute.
>>CARL: Yeah.
OK.
Yeah, I think there's been
a tendency for strongmen
in this past 10 years or so.
But I think that more
reflects an attempt
to stay in the previous--
>>REGINA: To cling
onto the sixth wave.
>>CARL: Cling on to that.
>>REGINA: So let's just say
that's an attempt to cling on.
And so what about someone who
is more malleable and soft?
>>CARL: Exactly.
Well, I think we don't
need big egos anymore.
>>REGINA: It doesn't
serve the unity.
>>CARL: It doesn't
And so I think that's one of the
big mistakes that have happened
in our current civilization.
And it goes back to this,
maybe, the Jewish Christian God
and that whole story
when people really
started to think that we
are in control as humans.
And that had consequences for
our relationship to nature
and so forth.
No, I think whatever serves
a more humble and not big
ego thing is really what the
future needs, and will actually
be supportive of.
>>REGINA: Is there any
final thought on this?
Because I love what you
just said-- it feels right.
>>CARL: Thank you.
Yeah.
Well, I guess I want to
emphasize something here.
That when it comes to
the Mayan calendar system
is that it is really
a quantum theory.
Which is different from
astrology and so forth, which
is always about smooth
repeated cycles and so forth.
And in a sense, that makes
it more challenging, we said.
It's almost like you
have to take the leap--
>>REGINA: A leap of faith.
You have to chance it.
It's not going to
just happen to you.
>>CARL: Right.
But anyway, that there is a
whole scientific background
to this kind of quantum
evolution of the universe
that I think can place a
tremendous amount of things
into their rightful place
in a meaningful way.
>>REGINA: I relate to
it, and I know people
enjoyed our previous interview.
They're enjoying your
interviews with other people
and your work.
I think you're arriving--
your work has arrived
right in the perfect time.
And so I want to
thank you for that.
>>CARL: Thank you.
Thank you.
That's kind.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Carl.
The title of Carl's
book is "Quantum Science
of Psychedelics", which you
can find at major booksellers.
You can also go to
his site Calleman.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.